docs: add 429 semantic_text troubleshooting (#2507)
elastic/docs-content: troubleshoot/elasticsearch/rejected-requests.md

Indexing pressure rejections appear as an `EsRejectedExecutionException`, and indicate that they were rejected due to `combined_coordinating_and_primary`, `coordinating`, `primary`, or `replica`.

These errors are often related to [backlogged tasks](task-queue-backlog.md), [bulk index](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk) sizing, or the ingest target's [`refresh_interval` setting](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/index-modules.md).  

> {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.1`{applies_to}`serverless: ga`Another cause of indexing pressure rejections might be the use of the [`semantic_text`](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/semantic-text) field type, which can cause rejections when indexing large batches of documents if the batch may otherwise incur an Out Of Memory (OOM) error.

Author: Thanks!

> {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.1`{applies_to}`serverless: ga`Another cause of indexing pressure rejections might be the use of the [`semantic_text`](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/semantic-text) field type, which can cause rejections when indexing large batches of documents if the batch may otherwise incur an Out Of Memory (OOM) error.

Author: Tried out a note block. 
<img width="856" height="559" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-12 at 14 10 22" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/366ca030-e4b9-444c-8a16-8ae1efe819b8" />
Any better? 😅

See [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QuV8QqSfc0c) for a walkthrough of diagnosing indexing pressure rejections.

## Prevent rejected requests [prevent-rejected-requests]

### Fix high CPU and memory usage [fix-high-cpu-memory-usage]

If {{es}} regularly rejects requests and other tasks, your cluster likely has high CPU usage or high JVM memory pressure. For tips, see [High CPU usage](high-cpu-usage.md) and [High JVM memory pressure](high-jvm-memory-pressure.md).

### Fix for `semantic_text` ingestion issues [fix-semantic-text-ingestion-issues]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.1
serverless: ga
```

> 

Reviewer: Is there a short intro sentence that could be added here, rather than just jumping right into the resolution steps? I think any description of how or where the `semantic_text` ingestion issue is surfaced would be good.

Author: Added a short description. @Mikep86 if you can double check too, just in case

Reviewer 2: LGTM!

1. Reduce the batch size of documents in your indexing requests.
2. If reducing batch size doesn't resolve the issue, then consider scaling up your machine resources.

> {applies_to}`serverless: unavailable`3. A last resort option is to adjust the `indexing_pressure.memory.coordinating.limit` cluster setting. The default value is 10% of the heap. Increasing this limit allows more memory to be used for coordinating operations before rejections occur. 

Reviewer 2: Similar rendering issue here:

<img width="858" height="180" alt="Screenshot 2025-08-11 at 1 30 57 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b466142a-5533-4208-a51d-aea5e217b6eb" />

Moving the `applies_to` to after the "3." could help

Reviewer: ```
1. Reduce the batch size of documents in your indexing requests.
2. If reducing batch size doesn't resolve the issue, then consider scaling up your machine resources.
3. {applies_to}`serverless: unavailable` A last resort option is to adjust the `indexing_pressure.memory.coordinating.limit` cluster setting. The default value is 10% of the heap. Increasing this limit allows more memory to be used for coordinating operations before rejections occur. 
```

Will render as:
<img width="534" height="256" alt="screen" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9d2fd86b-0324-422b-b8fe-0b7dda8fc008" />

Author: Oh definitely! Thanks both, apologies! Was playing around with the markdown yesterday and left it in an inconsistent state. 
Thanks for the suggestion!

❓ Is there a way to render this locally so that I can try a few things out?

Author: Many thanks @kilfoyle, works great!

Indexing pressure rejections appear as an `EsRejectedExecutionException`, and indicate that they were rejected due to `combined_coordinating_and_primary`, `coordinating`, `primary`, or `replica`.

These errors are often related to [backlogged tasks](task-queue-backlog.md), [bulk index](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-bulk) sizing, or the ingest target's [`refresh_interval` setting](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/index-modules.md).¹

> ¹ : Starting from versions 8.19+ and 9.1+, indexing to a semantic_text field can also cause 429 errors if the batch may otherwise incur an Out Of Memory (OOM) error.

Reviewer 3: I don't think we typically use footnotes in our docs? It would probably be better to put this in the doc and use our applies to syntax to tag the appropriate version number. Note that we'll want a follow up PR for 8.19 as this uses asciidoc format, so we'll only need applies to 9.1 in markdown.

**Fix high CPU and memory usage**

If {{es}} regularly rejects requests and other tasks, your cluster likely has high CPU usage or high JVM memory pressure. For tips, see [High CPU usage](high-cpu-usage.md) and [High JVM memory pressure](high-jvm-memory-pressure.md).

**Fix for semantic_text field issues:**

> When working with semantic_text fields in versions 8.19+ and 9.1+:

Reviewer 3: Let's use the applies to syntax here too

> 1. First, try reducing the batch size of documents in your indexing requests.

Reviewer 3: This seems a bit redundant - 1. and first.
```suggestion
1. Reduce the batch size of documents in your indexing requests.
```

2. If reducing batch size doesn't resolve the issue, then consider scaling up your machine resources.

> 3. A last resort option is to adjust the indexing_pressure.memory.coordinating.limit cluster setting. The default value is 10% of the heap. Increasing this limit allows more memory to be used for coordinating operations before rejections occur. This adjustment should only be considered after exhausting other options, as setting this value too high may risk Out of Memory (OOM) errors in your cluster. A cluster restart is required for this change to take effect.

Reviewer 3: This may warrant a warning in the docs, not just information in the list? Also, we should note that cluster settings can't be changed in serverless - that should be taken care of with applies to notation.

Author: Updated ✅
